# BRC-50: Submitting Received Payments to a Wallet

Brayden Langley (brayden@projectbabbage.com)

## Abstract

To ensure a seamless process for submitting payments to a wallet, there must be a standardized method by which this process takes place. Wallets that implement this standard will be able to support the direct submission of transactions from applications to a user's wallet along with the associated SPV information as defined by [BRC-9](../transactions/0009.md). The required message structure and fields are defined below in the [Payment Submission Message](#payment-submission-message) section, and the expected response to provide is defined in the [Payment Acknowledgment Message](#payment-acknowledgment-message) section. Wallets that choose to implement this specification will allow applications that facilitate the exchange of payments to be built in a way that is interoperable, extensible, and SPV compliant.

## Motivation

BRC-50 standardizes payment submission to a wallet, improving the user experience for incoming Bitcoin payments. This enables higher-layer applications to add funds to a user's wallet without needing to maintain their own external balance. By standardizing payment submission, developers can create interoperable, extensible, and SPV compliant applications. This ensures a seamless and secure payment process, benefiting both wallet providers and end-users.

## Specification

For this specification, we assume that there exists a wallet that facilitates a channel by which communication can occur with an application, such as over HTTP as defined in [BRC-5](./0005.md). Based on this premise, we specify a standard by which payments can be submitted from an application to a wallet which then receives and processes the payment.

### Payment Submission Message

We define an extension to the abstract [BRC-1](./0001.md) messaging layer as the Payment Submission Message which comprises a JSON object with the following fields:

> Several of the same fields as defined in [BRC-29](../payments/0029.md) are present in this message. This standard essentially facilitates an implementation of BRC-29 over an abstract, wallet-to-application interface.

Field         | Type / Required | Description
--------------|--------------- | ------------------------------
`protocol` | (string, required) | This field denotes that the JSON object comprises a payment message according to the given protocol (such as `3241645161d8` for [BRC-29](../payments/0029.md)).
`transaction` | (object, required) | The [BRC-8](../transactions/0008.md) transaction envelope to submit, including key derivation information (the "Outputs Extension" as defined in [BRC-29](../payments/0029.md))
`senderIdentityKey` | (string, required) |  The recipient will need to know the public identity key of the sender in order to validate the incoming payment. This field's value should be the 33-byte, compressed, hex-encoded secp256k1 public key of the sender
`derivationPrefix` |  (string, required) | This field denotes the payment-wide derivation prefix used by the sender when the keys for the payment UTXOs were derived
`note` | (string, required) | Human-readable description for the transaction.
`amount` | (number, optional) | Amount of satoshis associated with the transaction. If provided, it is used to verify that the amount returned from processing the transaction matches the payment amount.

The transaction field is a JSON object that conforms to the [BRC-8](../transactions/0008.md), with the [BRC-29](../payments/0029.md) Outputs Extension. Only ***one*** transaction can be submitted per request.

This provides the wallet with enough information to verify and receive payments from an application. 

Here is an *example* of a simple Payment Submission Message:

```json
{
  "protocol": "3241645161d8", // Simple Authenticated BSV P2PKH Payment Protocol
  "transaction": {
    "rawTx": "01000000017...",
    "inputs": {
        "b7d1297158f01bfc3fdace31f62a0d4634e9471d11b2a99f0784621cedb9367c": {
        "proof": {...},
        "rawTx": "01000000011..."
        }
    },
    "mapiResponses": [...],
    "txid": "737a1e90af9745da3f22ef74bc71a089c5e2a76e9662a0c9fa5b7cf94fe32e75"
  },
  "senderIdentityKey": "031d903f5b32a6121f29c59c547d2ea41ee8157ab0f0c2b5190be24a032816f827",
  "note": "Payment for spelling fix pull request.",
  "amount": 1033,
  "derivationPrefix:": "8217bb4e7fa0541e0f5e04fea764ab91"
}
```

### Payment Acknowledgment Message

The Payment Acknowledgment Message is the response that should be returned from the wallet to the calling application with the status of the request, and a reference number for the transaction submitted.

Here is an *example* response from a successful payment submission:
```json
{
    "reference": "cd5b1e4947e304476c788cd474fb579a",
    "status": "success",
    "note": "The transaction has been received."
}
```

### Payment Error Message

If an error occurs during submission, an internal error should be returned to the requesting application in the following format:

```json
{
    "status": "error",
    "code": "ERR_INTERNAL",
    "description": "An internal server error has occurred."
}
```

## Implementation

Wallets can implement this specification by providing access to a `submitDirectTransaction` route over a given [BRC-1](./0001.md) communications substrate, such as [BRC-5](./0005.md), [BRC-6](./0006.md) or [BRC-7](./0007.md).

A specific implementation of this BRC can be seen in the Babbage Dojo/Ninja architecture.