# BRC-96: BEEF V2, Txid Only Extension

Tone Engel (tone@projectbabbage.com)

## Abstract

The BEEF serialization format (as defined in [BRC-62](./0062.md)) is essentially two things:

1. An array of mined transaction proof validation data (BUMPS [BRC-74](./0074.md))
2. An array serialized Bitcoin transactions

In practical use, BEEFs are exchanged between parties to build and process new transactions
as well as validate arbitrary data recorded on the blockchain.

The extension proposed here is to allow for "agreed upon transactions"
to be represented in the array of transactions as just their transaction hash (txid),

This avoids the need to include potentially significant amounts of data already known to
the parties exchanging BEEFs.

In addition, this extension formally acknowledges that a BEEF may contain mulitple transaction "roots".

## Motivation

Consider when two parties cooperate over a short amount of time to construct one or more transactions.

Inputs may be added by either party. New inputs may come from unmined and mined transactions.

At each exchange of information along this process, one party sends a BEEF to the other to validate the new inputs or transaction(s) they originate.

The BEEF standard is well suited to this with two extensions:

1. In the general case, a BEEF does not need to be a single transaction tree.
2. A method of referencing what the process has previously validated. 

For example, when adding new inputs to an incomplete transaction, the set of source transactions for these inputs may need to be
transmitted to a second party. A BEEF of this validation information might include multiple trees of unmined transactions.

Furthermore, some of these inputs might be from transactions created earlier in the process for which complete validation data -
back to mined transactions - has already been shared.

Consider in particular if some of these transactions are truly large or if the rate of linked transaction generation is high.

## Specification

The serialized format for the transaction array is updated and the BEEF version number is incremented to `0200BEEF`.

For each serialized transaction, the byte previously used to indicate BUMP (`01`) or no BUMP (`00`) is renamed the Tx Data Format,
it is now the first thing written for each transaction,
and the value of (`02`) is now used when only a 32 byte txid is serialized.

| Field                 | Description                                                                                            | Size                |
|-----------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------|
| Version no            | Version number starts at 4022206466, encoded Uint32LE => `0200BEEF`                                    | 4 bytes             |
| nBUMPs                | VarInt number of BSV Unified Merkle Paths which follow                                                 | 1-9 bytes           |
| BUMP data             | All of the BUMPs required to prove inclusion of inputs in longest chain of blocks [BRC-74](./0074.md)  | many bytes x nBUMPs |
| nTransactions         | VarInt number of transactions which follow                                                             | 1-9 bytes           |
| Tx Data Format        | `00` raw transaction without BUMP index; `01` raw transaction followed by BUMP index; `02` txid only   | 1 byte              |
| Raw Transaction       | RawTx bytes as in standard format [BRC-12](./0012.md)                                                  | many bytes          |
| BUMP index            | VarInt index number - indicating the BUMP to which the prior tx belongs if there is one.               | 1-9 bytes           |
| txid only             | 32 byte transaction hash in reverse byte order                                                         | 32 bytes            |

### Validation Semantics

A txid only transaction is treated as implicitly valid, no raw transaction or BUMP index is included and no BUMP data is required.

Additional transactions that consume outputs from a txid only transaction treat those inputs as fully validated.

The ordering of transactions obeys the V1 rules: Parents, including txid only, must occur before children.

