# BRC-68: Publishing Trust Anchor Details at an Internet Domain

Ty Everett (ty@projectbabbage.com)

## Abstract

This document outlines a protocol that allows an entity to publish trust anchor details, including a public key, at a location on the internet. The information is stored in the `/manifest.json` file of the domain. This approach provides a user-friendly method for individuals to easily retrieve a trusted entity's public key by entering a known domain name.

## Motivation

The internet today has an increasingly complex landscape of entities that users may or may not trust. As systems decentralize, the need to independently verify the identity of a digital entity becomes vital. By allowing entities to publish trust details at known locations (their domains), users are provided with a recognizable and straightforward method to retrieve and validate their public keys, hence building a more trustable web.

## Specification

### Location & Protocol

1. The trust anchor details MUST be published in a file named `manifest.json`.
2. The `manifest.json` file MUST be hosted using the HTTPS protocol. Plain HTTP is not supported.
3. Only Fully Qualified Domain Names (FQDNs) are supported for hosting the `manifest.json` file.

### Data Structure

The trust details should be stored under the key `babbage` in the `manifest.json` file. Under the `babbage` key, the `trust` object should be defined with the following properties:

- **name**: The human-readable name of the entity.
- **note**: A brief note describing the role or function of the entity.
- **icon**: A URL pointing to an icon image representing the entity.
- **publicKey**: The public key of the entity in hexadecimal format.

### Validation Rules

1. **name**
   - MUST be a string.
   - MUST contain between 5 to 30 characters, inclusive.
2. **note**
   - MUST be a string.
   - MUST contain between 5 to 50 characters, inclusive.
3. **icon**
   - MUST be a valid image URL.
   - Should be accessed over HTTPS.
4. **publicKey**
   - MUST be a string in DER format.
   - MUST be compressed.
   - MUST use the secp256k1 elliptic curve.
   - The string should start with either "02" or "03".
   - MUST be in hexadecimal format, and 66 characters in length (including the starting "02" or "03").

### Examples

Here is a valid example of a `manifest.json` containing the trust anchor details:

```json
{
  "name": "SigniCert",
  "babbage": {
    "trust": {
      "name": "SigniCert",
      "note": "Certifies legal first and last name, and photos",
      "icon": "https://signia.babbage.systems/images/signiaIcon.png",
      "publicKey": "0295bf1c7842d14babf60daf2c733956c331f9dcb2c79e41f85fd1dda6a3fa4549"
    }
  }
}
```

For this example:

- `name` is "SigniCert", which has a length between 5 and 30 characters.
- `note` has a length between 5 and 50 characters.
- `icon` points to an image hosted over HTTPS.
- `publicKey` is a compressed DER-encoded key using the secp256k1 curve, starting with "02" and is 66 characters long.

## Conclusion

This technical specification provides a comprehensive framework for entities to publish trust anchor details at a known internet domain. By adhering to the defined structure and validation rules, we ensure a standardized method for users to access and trust these details. This is a step towards creating a more transparent and trustable digital landscape.